Regression tests for gpsim

Introduction
------------

The purpose of the regression tests is to ensure that gpsim works.
Basic elements like instruction simulation and breakpoints are 
verified. In addition when new bugs are found and fixed, specific
tests are created to ensure that future versions of gpsim are not
infected.

Each regression test or a collection of similar regression tests
occupies a subdirectory that is child of this README's directory.
The item(s) to be tested are placed into their own .asm file. This
file is assembled by gpasm and simulated by gpsim and then the results
are "analyzed" by a script. Once the .asm file is created, the whole
process becomes automatic. However, the regression files need to 
adhere to a format that is understood by the scripts.

Running
-------

If you want to perform a regression test with the default set up then
run:

./run_regression.sh

(You may need to change the file to an executable [chmod +x]).
This should step through each test and print PASS or FAIL results.


Files needed for a regression test
----------------------------------

Each test requires a .asm file and a .stc file. The .asm file contains
the assembly code (of course) and the .stc file contains startup 
commands that allow you to configure your simulation environment for
your test. For example, if your test involves measuring the width
of a pulse then you'll want to create an asynchronous stimulus to
generate the pulse.

Assembly file format
--------------------

The assembly file can contain anything you want. However, to simplify
the parsing of the results there are two things that are required:

  - a variable named "failures" is required. Your regression test
    should set this to a non-zero value if it detects a failure.

  - there should be a label called "done:"

A script will be created automatically to load your regression test
and to run it. This script sets a break point at the label "done"
and when it's it hit, the script will examine the contents of the
variable "failures". If "failures" is zero then the test passed.

Currently, the regression tests are limited to absolute mode formatted
files. 
