

                    gpsim

      GNU Pic Simulator, a simulator for 
      Microchip's PIC microcontrollers.


Version 0.22.0 is now officially released. 

http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=2341
http://gpsim.sourceforge.net/gpsim.html

There are about 300 changelog entries since gpsim was last released in
October of last year! There have been many new features added and many
bugs fixed. I'm particularly pleased to see major contributions from
several other developers.

Here's a very abbreviated list of the new features:

10NOV06 gpsim-0.22.0
  o J.R. Heisy added a mechanism for exposing the command prompt to modules
  o Roy Rankin and Scott Dattalo added a switch module.
  o Roy Rankin added analog signal processing to the switch module
  o Roy Rankin added a switch module regression test.
  o J.R. Heisy array type support and array range support
  o Robert Pearce added support for 10F20x devices
  o Roy Rankin added support for the 16f87 16f88
  o J.R. Heisy added an 'address of' operator
  o Roy Rankin added a gui console for USART module
  o Roy Rankin fixed bugs in the USART module and regressions tests for it
  o Scott Dattalo added regression tests for breakpoints
  o Roy Rankin added regression tests for the resistor module.
  o Roy Rankin added regression tests for EEPROMs
  o Roy Rankin added support for comparators (e.g in 16f62x)
  o Scott Dattalo enhanced breakpoint expressions and added breakpoint messages.
  o Scott Dattalo wrote a new source browser.
  o Scott Dattalo added support for displaying list files in the source browser.
  o Scott Dattalo started basic dsPic support.
  o Scott Dattalo added support for the 18f extended instructions.
  o Scott Dattalo and Borut Razem migrated from CVS to SVN.
  o Scott Dattalo added A2D support for the 16bit core and to the 16x71
  o Scott Dattalo added a 74X377 module.
  o Robert Pearce improved UART regression tests.
  o Scott Dattalo added a regression test for the CCP module.
  o Scott Dattalo added an attribute controlled stimulus module.
  o Scott Dattalo added a romData[] operator similar to ramData[]
  o Scott Dattalo added command line writable processor config bits.
  o Scott Dattalo added a GUI scope window
  o Roy Rankin added PSP support
  o Roy Rankin added I2C EEPROM modules
  o Scott Dattalo fixed file logging.
  o Roy Rankin added SPI support
  o Roy Rankin added I2C support
  o Scott Dattalo added the p16f624 and p16f624a
  o Scott Dattalo added a memory-mappable parallel port stimulus module
  o Scott Dattalo updated the documentation

It should be pointed out that despite not having his listed too many
times above that Borut fixed dozens of bugs. He accounts for over 1/6
of the 300 ChangeLog entries. Those of you familiar with SDCC know
that Borut has taken on an immensely important role of making sure all
details are taken care of.

In addition several users have supplied patches, suggestions, and
filed bug reports:

 Alex Holden, Alain Portal, Xiaofan Chen, Steffen Joeris, 
David Barnett, Eamon Skelton, Ralf Forsberg, Colm Flaherty

And I know I'm probably missing others

README:
------
Please see the README file for all of the details on the new features.

INSTALL:
-------
install gpsim the standard way:

tar -xvzf gpsim-0.22.0.tar.gz
./configure
cd gpsim-0.22.0/
make
su root
make install

this will expand into a child directory named gpsim-0.22.0 . From there you
can check the README, README.EXAMPLES, INSTALL, HISTORY, PROCESSORS and TODO
files for more information. The rest of the steps will build gpsim and place
the executable into /usr/local/bin . If you don't have root privileges then
you can copy the executable at gpsim-0.20.0/gpsim/gpsim to a directory in the
execution path. Or better, check out INSTALL


Scott
